.TH FvwmForm 1.0
.SH NAME
FvwmForm - input form module for Fvwm
.SH SYNOPSIS
FvwmForm must be spawned by Fvwm.  
It will not work from the command line.
.SH DESCRIPTION
FvwmForm provides a mechanism to get user input and act accordingly.
This is achieved by means of a form that the user can fill out,
and from which the user can select actions he wants Fvwm to take.
A form consists of five types of items:
text labels, 
single-line text inputs,
mutually-exclusive selections,
multiple-choice selections,
and action buttons.
These items are arranged into several lines,
with a very flexible layout.

A text label only serves the purpose of explanation.
It cannot accept any input.
A text input field can be used to edit a single-line string.
FvwmForm accepts Emacs-style cursor movement keys.
No copying and pasting functions exist.

A selection consists of several choices.
The selection itself is a logical entity that doesn't have any display
feature.
Each choice is displayed as a push-button followed by a explanatory
text label.
When selected, an exclusive choice shows a circle in the middle,
while a multiple choice shows a check.

An action button, when clicked on, will send a set of commands to
Fvwm.
FvwmForm will do variable substitutions in the command text to reflect
the user's input.
.SH INITIALIZATION
FvwmForm uses the same configuration file (usually .fvwmrc in the user's
home directory) as Fvwm.
To use FvwmForm for multiple input forms,
simply create symbolic links with different names,
and they will be treated as different modules.  Or, you can invoke FvwmForm
with an optional parameter, which it will use as the name instead
(e.g. 'Module FvwmForm QuitVerify').  That way you don't even have to make
a symbolic link for it!

Be sure to set ModulePath in your .fvwmrc file to include
FvwmForm's path.

When FvwmForm is invoked with a window context, e.g. from a window menu,
all commands it sends to Fvwm will have that window context.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following options can be set in the .fvwmrc file.
Note that the string "FvwmForm" should be changed if another module with
different name is used.

The order of the options DOES matter.
In general, colors and fonts should be specified first.
Lines, text labels, and input items should appear in their logical order.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormGrabServer
This option makes FvwmForm grab the mouse pointer on startup.
This feature is useful for things like logout verification.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormWarpPointer
This option makes FvwmForm warp the mouse pointer into its window on startup.
It saves the user some mouse-travelling.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormPosition \fIx\fP \fIy\fP
Puts the FvwmForm window at location (\fIx\fP, \fIy\fP) on the screen.
By convention, a negative \fIx\fP (resp. \fIy\fP) value measures
distance from the right (resp. bottom) of the screen.

If this option is omitted, FvwmForm will start at the center of the screen.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormBack \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the background color of the FvwmForm window.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormFore \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the foreground color for displaying plain text.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormItemBack \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the background color for the text input windows, and
the buttons.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormItemFore \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the foreground color for the text input strings and button
markers.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormFont \fIfont\fP
Specifies the font for displaying plain text.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormButtonFont \fIfont\fP
Specifies the font for text marked in the action buttons.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormInputfont \fIfont\fP
Specifies the font for text input.  This font must have fixed width.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormLine \fIjustification\fP
Starts a new line.
A line can contain an arbitrary number of items whose options should
follow.
A FvwmForm window can have an arbitrary number of lines.
The width of the window is that of the longest line.

Justification of items in the line is specified by \fIjustification\fP,
which can be one of the following:
.TP 16
.B \fIleft\fP
Items are justified to the left of the window.
.TP 16
.B \fIright\fP
Items are justified to the right of the window.
.TP 16
.B \fIcenter\fP
Items are placed in the center of the window.
.TP 16
.B \fIexpand\fP
If there is only one item in the line, the item is centered in the window.
If two or more items are present, they are spreaded to fill the whole
width of the window.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormText "\fIstring\fP"
Displays \fIstring\fP as plain text.
Line breaks must be achieved by multiple *FvwmFormLine and *FvwmFormText
options.
Blanks may be used to provide extra padding between items.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormInput \fIname\fP \fIsize\fP "\fIinit_string\fP"
Specifies a text input item with name \fIname\fP.
A subwindow of \fIsize\fP characters in width will be used for editting.
If \fIinit_string\fP is present, it will be the initial string when
FvwmForm starts or resets itself.
The default initial string is "".
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormSelection \fIname\fP \fItype\fP
This option starts a selection item with name \fIname\fP.
Its choices should be specified on the subsequent lines.
The option \fItype\fP is one of the following:
.TP 16
.B \fIsingle\fP
The selections are mutually exclusive.
.TP 16
.B \fImultiple\fP
This is a multiple-choice selection.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormChoice \fIname\fP \fIvalue\fP "on | off" "\fIstring\fP"
Specifies a choice for a selection.
The choice item has a \fIname\fP and a \fIvalue\fP.
The \fIstring\fP will be displayed to the right of the choice button
as a label.

The choice will assume the specified initial state ("on" means selected)
when FvwmForm starts or resets.
Note that if the selections are mutually exclusive,
FvwmForm will NOT detect inconsistencies in the initial states of the choices,
i.e. two or none of the choices can be selected.
However, once the user selects a choice,
FvwmForm will assure only one is selected.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormButton \fItype\fP "\fIstring\fP" [\fIkey\fP]
This option specifies an action button.
The button has \fIstring\fP as a label, 
and excutes a set of Fvwm \fIcommand\fP when it is activated.
The commands should be specified using the *FvwmFormCommand option.

The optional \fIkey\fP specifies a keyboard shortcut that activates
the button.
It is in either a control character, specified as ^@, ^A, ..., ^_,
or a function key, specified as F1, F2, ..., F35.
Control keys that are used for cursor movement in text input fields
cannot activate any buttons, with the exception of TAB, RETURN, LINEFEED,
which can activate a button when the cursor is in the last text input field.

The behavior of the button is determined by \fItype\fP:
.TP 16
continue
FvwmForm will resume execution after sending the commands.
.TP 16
restart
After sending the commands, 
FvwmForm will reset all the values to the initial ones,
and then resume execution.
.TP 16
quit
FvwmForm will quit after sending the commands.
.TP 4
.B *FvwmFormCommand \fIcommand\fP
This option specifies an Fvwm command associated with the current button.
Commands that appear before any *FvwmFormButton option will be executed
at start-up time.  This is usually a beep that gets the user's attention.

Before sending each command to Fvwm, FvwmForm recognizes variables of the
following forms, and supply values to them.
.TP 16
.B $(\fIname\fP)
If \fIname\fP corresponds to a text input field,
the result is the user's input string.
Special chars such as ", ', and \ will be preceded by a backslash.

If \fIname\fP corresponds to a choice,
the result is the value of the choice (as specified in *FvwmFormChoice)
if the choice is selected.
If the choice is not selected, the result is a blank string.

If \fIname\fP corresponds to a selection,
the result will be a list of the selected values of all its choices.
.TP 16
.B $(\fIname\fP?\fIstring\fP)
If \fIname\fP is a text input field and its value is not an empty string,
the result is \fIstring\fP,
with recursive variable substitution applied.
If the input value is empty, the result is empty.

If \fIname\fP is a choice and it is selected,
the result is \fIstring\fP,
with recursive variable substitution applied.
If the choice is not selected, the result is empty.
.TP 16
.B $(\fIname\fP!\fIstring\fP)
The same as the above, except that the converse conditions are taken.
.SH EXAMPLE 1 - QuitVerify
This example simulates the mwm way of confirming logout.

*QuitVerifyGrabServer
.br
*QuitVerifyWarpPointer
.br
*QuitVerifyFont		*helvetica*m*r*n*14*
.br
*QuitVerifyButtonFont	*helvetica*m*o*n*14*
.br
*QuitVerifyFore		Black
.br
*QuitVerifyBack		Light Gray
.br
*QuitVerifyItemFore	Wheat
.br
*QuitVerifyItemBack	Gray50
.br
# begin items
.br
*QuitVerifyCommand	Beep
.br
*QuitVerifyLine		center
.br
*QuitVerifyText		"Do you really want to logout?"
.br
*QuitVerifyLine		expand
.br
*QuitVerifyButton	quit		"Logout"	^M
.br
*QuitVerifyCommand	Quit
.br
*QuitVerifyButton	quit		"Cancel"	^[
.br
*QuitVerifyCommand	Nop
.br
# Fvwm window style
.br
Style "QuitVerify" NoTitle, NoHandles, BorderWidth 3

.SH EXAMPLE 2 - Remote Login
This example lets the user type in a hostname, 
and optionally a user name on the remote machine,
and opens an xterm window from the remote host.

*RloginWarpPointer
.br
*RloginFont		*helvetica*m*r*n*14*
.br
*RloginButtonFont	*helvetica*m*o*n*14*
.br
*RloginInputFont	*cour*m*r*n*14*
.br
*RloginFore		Black
.br
*RloginBack		Light Gray
.br
*RloginItemFore		Wheat
.br
*RloginItemBack		Gray50
.br
# begin items
.br
*RloginLine		center
.br
*RloginText		"Login to Remote Host"
.br
*RloginLine		center
.br
*RloginText		"Host:"
.br
*RloginInput		HostName	20	""
.br
*RloginLine		center
.br
*RloginSelection	UserSel	single
.br
*RloginChoice		Default	Default	on	"same user"
.br
*RloginChoice		Custom	Custom	off	"user:"
.br
*RloginInput		UserName	10	""
.br
*RloginLine		expand
.br
*RloginButton		quit	"Login"		^M
.br
*RloginCommand	Exec exec rsh $(Custom?-l $(UserName)) $(HostName) xterm -T xterm@$(HostName) -display $HOSTDISPLAY &
.br
*RloginButton		restart	"Clear"
.br
*RloginButton		quit	"Cancel"	^[
.br
*RloginCommand	Nop

.SH EXAMPLE 3 - Capture Window
This example provides a front-end to xwd, xwud, and xpr.

*CaptureFont		*helvetica*m*r*n*14*
.br
*CaptureButtonFont	*helvetica*m*o*n*14*
.br
*CaptureInputFont	*cour*m*r*n*14*
.br
*CaptureLine		center
.br
*CaptureText		"Capture Window"
.br
*CaptureLine		left
.br
*CaptureText		"File: "
.br
*CaptureInput		file		25	"/tmp/Capture"
.br
*CaptureLine		left
.br
*CaptureText		"Printer: "
.br
*CaptureInput		printer		20	"ps1"
.br
*CaptureLine		expand
.br
*CaptureSelection	PtrType	single
.br
*CaptureChoice		PS	ps	on	"PostScript"
.br
*CaptureChoice		Ljet	ljet	off	"HP LaserJet"
.br
*CaptureLine		left
.br
*CaptureText		"xwd options:"
.br
*CaptureLine		expand
.br
*CaptureSelection	Options	multiple
.br
*CaptureChoice		Brd	-nobdrs	off	"No border"
.br
*CaptureChoice		Frm	-frame	on	"With frame"
.br
*CaptureChoice		XYZ	-xy	off	"XY format"
.br
*CaptureLine		expand
.br
*CaptureButton		continue	"Capture"	^M
.br
*CaptureCommand	Exec exec xwd -out $(file) $(Options) &
.br
*CaptureButton		continue	"Preview"
.br
*CaptureCommand	Exec exec xwud -in $(file) &
.br
*CaptureButton		continue	"Print"
.br
*CaptureCommand	Exec xpr -device $(PtrType) $(file) | lpr -P $(printer) &
.br
*CaptureButton		quit		"Quit"

.SH BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
There is a hard-coded limit on the number of items.

Report bugs to ztfeng@math.princeton.edu.
.SH COPYRIGHT
FvwmForm is original work of Thomas Zuwei Feng.

Copyright Feb 1995, Thomas Zuwei Feng.  No guarantees or warantees are
provided or implied in any way whatsoever.  Use this program at your own
risk.  Permission to use, modify, and redistribute this program is hereby
given, provided that this copyright is kept intact.

.SH 
