.\" t
.\" @(#)FvwmTalk.1	1/12/94
.TH FvwmTalk 1.20 "Jan 28 1994"
.UC
.SH NAME
FvwmTalk \- the FVWM command line interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
FvwmTalk is spawned by fvwm, so no command line invocation will work.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The FvwmTalk allows the user to type fvwm commands into a window, and
have them executed immediately. These commands are usually specfified
in the .fvwmrc file, or are bound to menu/mouse items as specified
in that file. This tools is particularly useful for testing new
configuration ideas, or for implementing temporary changes to your
environment.

.SH COPYRIGHTS
The FvwmTalk program, and the concept for
interfacing this module to the Window Manager, are all original work
by Robert Nation

Copyright 1994, Robert Nation. No guarantees or warranties or anything
are provided or implied in any way whatsoever. Use this program at your
own risk. Permission to use this program for any purpose is given,
as long as the copyright is kept intact. 


.SH INITIALIZATION
So kill me, I can't remember what goes on.

.SH INVOCATION
FvwmTalk can be invoked by inserting the line 'Module FvwmTalk' in
the .fvwmrc file. This can be placed on a line by itself, if FvwmTalk
is to be spawned during fvwm's initialization, or can be bound to a
menu or mouse button or keystroke to invoke it later. Fvwm will search
directory specified in the ModulePath configuration option to attempt
to locate FvwmTalk.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
I plead ignorance here. Read the code.


.SH AUTHOR
Robert Nation

