.\" t
.\" @(#)FvwmBacker.1	11/8/94
.TH FvwmBacker 0.1 "September 8th, 1994"
.UC
.SH NAME
FvwmBacker \- the FVWM background changer module
.SH SYNOPSIS
FvwmBacker is spawned by fvwm, so no command line invocation will work.

.SH DESCRIPTION

The FvwmBacker module provides functionality to change the background
when changing desktops.  Any command can be executed to change the
backgrounds.  Actually, any arbitrary command can be sent to fvwm to
execute, so you could also do things such as changing window border
colors, etc.

.SH COPYRIGHTS
The FvwmBacker module is the original work of Mike Finger.

Copyright 1994, Mike Finger. The author makes no guarantees or
warranties of any kind about the use of this module.  Use this modules
at your own risk.  You may freely use this module or any portion of it
for any purpose as long as the copyright is kept intact.

.SH INITIALIZATION
During initialization, \fIFvwmBacker\fP will scan the same
configuration file that FVWM used during startup to find the options
that pertain to it.  These options are discussed in a later section.

.SH INVOCATION
FvwmBacker can be invoked by fvwm during initialization by inserting
the line 'Module FvwmBacker' in the .fvwm2rc file.

FvwmBacker must reside in a directory that is listed in the ModulePath
option of FVWM for it to be executed by FVWM.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
The following is the only supported option at present:

.IP "*FvwmBackerDesk \fIDeskNumber command\fP"
Specifies the \fIcommand\fP to execute when the specified
\fIDeskNumber\fP becomes active.

If the command begins with \fI-solid\fP FvwmBacker uses the next
argument as a color in the X database and sets the background to that
color without generating a system call to xsetroot (only single word
color names may be used).  Otherwise the command is sent to fvwm to
execute.

.SH SAMPLE CONFIGURATION
The following are excepts from an .fvwm2rc file which describe
FvwmBacker initialization commands:

.nf
.sp
####
# Set Up Backgrounds for different desktops.
####
*FvwmBackerDesk 0 -solid steelblue
*FvwmBackerDesk 1 -solid midnightblue
*FvwmBackerDesk 2 -solid yellow
*FvwmBackerDesk 3 Exec xpmroot /usr/include/X11/pixmaps/background2.xpm
.sp
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Finger (mfinger@mermaid.micro.umn.edu)
            (Mike_Finger@atk.com)
            (doodman on IRC, check the #linux channel)
.SH Modified by
Andrew Davison (davison@cs.monash.edu.au)
